Add FAQ for using data in python instead of R (#34)
AlexsLemonade/scpca-docs: docs/faq.md

seurat_object[["CITE"]] <- cite_assay
```

## What if I want to use Python instead of R? 

Gene expression data files are only available as RDS files, and must be opened in R to view the contents. 
If you prefer to work in python, count data can first be converted into the 10X format using [`DropletUtils::write10xCounts()`](https://rdrr.io/bioc/DropletUtils/man/write10xCounts.html). 
Note that you will need to install the [`DropletUtils` package](https://www.bioconductor.org/packages/devel/bioc/html/DropletUtils.html) to use this function.

This will output three files to a new directory:
- the counts matrix in sparse matrix format - `matrix.mtx.gz`
- the row names, or gene names, saved as a TSV - `features.tsv.gz`
- the column names, or cell barcodes, saved as a TSV - `barcodes.tsv.gz`

```
library(SingleCellExperiment)

# read in the RDS file to be converted
sce <- readRDS("SCPCL000000_filtered.rds")

# extract the counts matrix to be saved 
rna_counts <- counts(sce)

# write counts to 10X format and save to a folder named "SCPCL000000-rna"
DropletUtils::write10xCounts("SCPCL000000-rna", rna_counts, 
                             barcodes = colnames(rna_counts),

>                              gene.id = rownames(rna_counts))

Reviewer: > There is also a `chemistry` field

Update: this only matters if the output format is HDF5, which we are not using (and I would agree we should not here)

>                              gene.id = rownames(rna_counts))

Author: I'm going to agree and vote no to the chemistry field if that is the case then.

```

If a library has associated CITE-seq that exists, you will have to save that separately.

```

> # extract the CITE counts matrix to be saved 
> cite_counts <- counts(altExp(sce))
> 
> # write counts to 10X format
> DropletUtils::write10xCounts("SCPCL000000-cite", cite_counts, 
>                              barcodes = colnames(cite_counts),
>                              gene.id = rownames(cite_counts))
> 

Reviewer: Same suggestion for simplification as above, but here I am adding the version 3 optional info that denotes this as antibody tags. If we want to do this, we should add `version = "3"` above as well.  (It looks like we _could_ combine the outputs into a single matrix, but I feel like keeping them separate still seems easier to understand & keep track of). 
```suggestion
# write CITE-seq counts to 10X format
DropletUtils::write10xCounts("SCPCL000000-cite", counts(altExp(sce)), 
                             barcodes = colnames(altExp(sce)),
                             gene.id = rownames(altExp(sce)),
                             gene.type = "Antibody Capture",
                             version = "3")

```

```

> These files can then be directly read into python using the [`scanpy` package](https://scanpy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/), creating an [`AnnData` object](https://anndata.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These files can then be directly read into Python using the [`scanpy` package](https://scanpy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/), creating an [`AnnData` object](https://anndata.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html).
```

Note that you will need to [install the `scanpy` package](https://scanpy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installation.html).

```
import scanpy as sc

#read in 10X formatted files
rna_file_directory = "SCPCL000000-rna"
anndata_object = sc.read_10x_mtx(rna_file_directory)

cite_file_directory = "SCPCL000000-cite"
cite_anndata = sc.read_10x_mtx(cite_file_directory)

# append CITE-seq anndata to RNA-seq anndata
anndata_object['CITE'] = cite_anndata.to_df()
```

> It should be noted that in this conversion the `colData`, `rowData` and metadata that is found in the original `SingleCellExperiment` objects will not be obtained. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It should be noted that in this conversion the `colData`, `rowData`, and metadata that are found in the original `SingleCellExperiment` objects will not be retained. 
```

> If you would like to maintain this data, we provide a [reference from the authors of scanpy](https://theislab.github.io/scanpy-in-R/#converting-from-r-to-python) discussing one approach to save pieces of the `SingleCellExperiment` object separately and add them into an `AnnData` object.

Reviewer: I'm splitting this up a bit, as I think there is more to the linked approach than just the conversion of metadata. I want to believe that for the simpler case, people going down this route will know how to write a data frame and read it in Python. 

I'm wondering if we should just link to the main part of that website (https://theislab.github.io/scanpy-in-R) , as the section you link to assumes you have read & set up earlier steps.  Or maybe we should link to https://theislab.github.io/scanpy-in-R/#the-r-markdown-approach ?

```suggestion
If you would like to include this data, you could write out each table separately and load them manually in Python.
Alternatively, you might be interested in this [reference from the authors of scanpy](https://theislab.github.io/scanpy-in-R/#converting-from-r-to-python) discussing a different approach to  conversion using Rmarkdown notebooks and the `reticulate` package to directly convert `SingleCellExperiment` object components to AnnData object components without writing files to disk.
```

# add altExp from SingleCellExperiment as second assay to Seurat
seurat_object[["CITE"]] <- cite_assay
```

## What if I want to use Python instead of R? 

We provide single-cell and single-nuclei gene expression data as RDS files, which must be opened in R to view the contents. 
If you prefer to work in Python, there are a variety of ways of converting the count data to Python-compatible formats.
We have found that one of the more efficient is conversion via the 10X format using [`DropletUtils::write10xCounts()`](https://rdrr.io/bioc/DropletUtils/man/write10xCounts.html). 
Note that you will need to install the [`DropletUtils` package](https://www.bioconductor.org/packages/devel/bioc/html/DropletUtils.html) to use this function.

> This will output three files to a new directory:

Reviewer: Maybe we want to be a bit more specific here, as there are a number output formats we could apply. 

This maybe gets the info we need, without the details about .gz or not .gz?
```suggestion
When used as described below, `DropletUtils::write10xCounts()` will output three files to a new directory, following the format used by Cell Ranger 3.0 (and later):
```
